this is my little steam engine
there's my thumb so to give you an idea
of the size and I can show you it
working in a one steam what I have this
is a little pump it came with a medical
cushion that my wife had and cost 300
bucks for a rubber cushion with a little
I mean ridiculous but it was medical oh
boy
anyway what I'm doing is I'm putting
that one so now I've got a source of air
and as long as I'm trying not to rock
this bloody camera there we go I think I
think okay yeah now I'll try to get it
out of the way now
I just pushing little little bit of air
you may look wonder what this handle is
here well it's reversing and when you
see it turns these in one where 30
degrees from the horizontal downwards
and in the other direction they're 30
degrees upwards and so let me show you
there and again you can see how which
way yes you see it's now going looking
in this direction it's going
counterclockwise okay
now change it and it will go clockwise
go slowly there we go clockwise
it's still quite well it'll do like
anything on oh five pounds pressure but
I can just make it go by blow into that
tube but I'm not gonna do it now and try
and make it go slowly you can see the
reaction
to give you an idea
oh there we go
that's good counterclockwise looking in
that direction now I change it and you
can see how the these little sliders
block the camera these little sliders
change direction you look yeah well okay
I'll show you just a few bits about it
these are the two syringes and steam
where comes in here and it exhausts
there this is a steam chest which
contains in these underneath little
valves not no makeup takes too long but
but that's all the valves now I'll show
you these tubular things keep the piston
rod straight when it's pushing down the
connecting rod to the crank shaft
otherwise there be side movements on it
and they're called cross heads or cross
head guides then
on the crank just having different here
difficult to see let me see if I can
point it out well I can't really but the
there is a central little flywheel and
then the crankshaft the the actual
cranks are set at 90 degrees to one
another so with two cylinders itself
starting and on the outside of each you
see here is a eccentric which is driving
a sort of connecting rod to these
sliders and the sliders in turn make
these little connecting rods work the
valves but anyway that's my little
engine a supply wheel that's looking at
the other side you can get a better idea
of the let me see I'll turn it you well
I'll leave it this way you probably see
you can see how yeah now you can see the
eccentrics and but it but a simple
design and fun to make fun to draw and
Oh fun to make well what's it running
and anyway and fun to make a little
video of it but anyway that's my little
offering and I hope you liked it
you